README.md, before:

# c2pa-js

> [!NOTE]
> Looking for the old `c2pa-js` repo? It's available [here](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js-legacy) as `c2pa-js-legacy`. Those packages are now deprecated and implementors wishing to interact with C2PA metadata on the web should use the libraries in this repo instead.

A collection of libraries and tools that enable interaction with [C2PA metadata](https://c2pa.org/) in JavaScript. Part of the [Content Authenticity Initiative](https://contentauthenticity.org/).

## Using This Monorepo

This monorepo is managed by [NX](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro) and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/).

### Prerequisites

The following must be installed before working with this monorepo:

#### Node.js

Node.js **v22 or later** is required (earlier versions may fail with build errors related to unknown file extensions).

If you use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm), you can install the required version with:

```sh
nvm install <version>
nvm install 22.22.0
```

#### pnpm and NX

Install pnpm and NX.

```sh
npm install -g pnpm
npm install -g nx
```

#### Rust Toolchain (for building `c2pa-wasm`)

If you plan to build from source (rather than only consuming published packages), the Rust toolchain and additional prerequisites are required. See [`c2pa-wasm`'s prerequisites](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm#prerequisites) for full details.

### Recommended Setup Order

1. Install Node.js, pnpm, and NX (see above).
2. Install the Rust toolchain and `c2pa-wasm` prerequisites (see [`packages/c2pa-wasm/README.md`](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm#prerequisites)).
3. Run `pnpm install` from the repo root to install the project's dependencies.

### Running Commands with Nx

Commands are run in the following format: `nx [target] [project]`, e.g.:

```sh
nx build c2pa-web # This will build c2pa-web and all of its dependencies
nx test c2pa-web # This will build and run the tests defined in the c2pa-web package
nx run lint # This will run the linter (eslint) on the entire repo.
```

### Committing Changes for Release

If your changes should be part of a release, you will need to create and commit a changeset.

To create a new changeset, from the root repo directory, run:
```sh
pnpm changeset
```

Follow the prompts to bump the version numbers of affected packages as appropriate. This will generate a new changeset markdown file in the `.changeset` directory, which should then be committed as part of your PR.

Once the PR is merge into `main`, the changeset bot will create a release PR, which will then be reviewed, merged, and result in a new release being published.

## Packages

Please see the individual package directories for more detailed information.

### `packages/`

Published libraries intended for production use.

#### [c2pa-web](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-web)

The SDK for interacting with [C2PA metadata](https://c2pa.org/) on the web.

#### [c2pa-wasm](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm)

The WebAssembly wrapper for [c2pa-rs](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs) that powers c2pa-web, built with [wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/wasm-bindgen/wasm-bindgen). While these bindings can be used directly, most users will prefer the convenience of c2pa-web.

#### [c2pa-types](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-types)

Exports TypeScript types autogenerated from [c2pa-rs](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs) structs, used by c2pa-web.

### `tools/`

Other tools that provide utilities for local development.

#### [testbed](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/tools/testbed)

A minimal website that can be used to view c2pa-web output and as a sandbox for local development.

#### [nx-wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/tools/nx-wasm-bindgen)

A custom [NX executor](https://nx.dev/concepts/executors-and-configurations) that contains the logic for building c2pa-wasm using [wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/wasm-bindgen/wasm-bindgen).

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js-v2/blob/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

style: Add ESLint rule comma-dangle to never be allowed at error level (#80)

README.md, after:

# c2pa-js

> [!NOTE]
> Looking for the old `c2pa-js` repo? It's available [here](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js-legacy) as `c2pa-js-legacy`. Those packages are now deprecated and implementors wishing to interact with C2PA metadata on the web should use the libraries in this repo instead.

A collection of libraries and tools that enable interaction with [C2PA metadata](https://c2pa.org/) in JavaScript. Part of the [Content Authenticity Initiative](https://contentauthenticity.org/).

## Using This Monorepo

This monorepo is managed by [NX](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro) and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/).

### Prerequisites

The following must be installed before working with this monorepo:

#### Node.js

Node.js **v22 or later** is required (earlier versions may fail with build errors related to unknown file extensions).

If you use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm), you can install the required version with:

```sh
nvm install <version>
nvm install 22.22.0
```

#### pnpm and NX

Install pnpm and NX.

```sh
npm install -g pnpm
npm install -g nx
```

#### Rust Toolchain (for building `c2pa-wasm`)

If you plan to build from source (rather than only consuming published packages), the Rust toolchain and additional prerequisites are required. See [`c2pa-wasm`'s prerequisites](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm#prerequisites) for full details.

### Recommended Setup Order

1. Install Node.js, pnpm, and NX (see above).
2. Install the Rust toolchain and `c2pa-wasm` prerequisites (see [`packages/c2pa-wasm/README.md`](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm#prerequisites)).
3. Run `pnpm install` from the repo root to install the project's dependencies.

### Running Commands with Nx

Commands are run in the following format: `nx [target] [project]`, e.g.:

```sh
nx build c2pa-web # This will build c2pa-web and all of its dependencies
nx test c2pa-web # This will build and run the tests defined in the c2pa-web package
nx lint c2pa-web # This will run ESLint on the c2pa-web package
nx lint c2pa-web --fix # This will run ESLint on the c2pa-web package and fix any errors
```

### Committing Changes for Release

If your changes should be part of a release, you will need to create and commit a changeset.

To create a new changeset, from the root repo directory, run:

```sh
pnpm changeset
```

Follow the prompts to bump the version numbers of affected packages as appropriate. This will generate a new changeset markdown file in the `.changeset` directory, which should then be committed as part of your PR.

Once the PR is merge into `main`, the changeset bot will create a release PR, which will then be reviewed, merged, and result in a new release being published.

## Packages

Please see the individual package directories for more detailed information.

### `packages/`

Published libraries intended for production use.

#### [c2pa-web](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-web)

The SDK for interacting with [C2PA metadata](https://c2pa.org/) on the web.

#### [c2pa-wasm](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-wasm)

The WebAssembly wrapper for [c2pa-rs](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs) that powers c2pa-web, built with [wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/wasm-bindgen/wasm-bindgen). While these bindings can be used directly, most users will prefer the convenience of c2pa-web.

#### [c2pa-types](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/packages/c2pa-types)

Exports TypeScript types autogenerated from [c2pa-rs](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs) structs, used by c2pa-web.

### `tools/`

Other tools that provide utilities for local development.

#### [testbed](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/tools/testbed)

A minimal website that can be used to view c2pa-web output and as a sandbox for local development.

#### [nx-wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js/tree/main/tools/nx-wasm-bindgen)

A custom [NX executor](https://nx.dev/concepts/executors-and-configurations) that contains the logic for building c2pa-wasm using [wasm-bindgen](https://github.com/wasm-bindgen/wasm-bindgen).

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-js-v2/blob/main/LICENSE).
